I'm an engineer from clear code inc, and right now working on the project
to port Fluent Bit to Windows. Today I want to provide a general
introduction of Fluent Bit and talk about the state of Windows support
I'm working on.

    Higher Overview

Let me start by saying that we have tons and tons of log data to manage,
We have logs from app servers, logs from database servers, logs from
proxy servers and so on.

And the amount of logs is increasing very rapidly each year.

This is a traditional web application, which has two web servers and
two database servers, so called LAMP stack, you know, linux apacha
mysql and programming language such as python. The question is how many
log files this stack contains?

First we have two access log from nginx of course, and we have two app
logs from python application, and two database logs from mysql. So we have
at least 6 logs, all of which we need to monitor carefully,
or we'll miss a serious incident.

Now it's age of micro services and virtualization. Now you can
literally have a dozens of severs just to run a single application,
and every server emits log files independently with each other. 
In this slide now you have thirteen six logs to manage. How do you monitor them?

It's no wonder that everyone suddely rushes to log management solutions,
like splunk, elasticsearch, and time series database like influxdb or
message manager like kafka. I'm sure that you are using one
or two of them at work, and I for one use them at work. They are indeed
amazing products.

But the remaining problem here is that how to send your logs to
these products. Your have log files in servers and files do not transfer
themselves to other servers, so you need to make it happen. The question
is "how".

I summarize my points so far,

 * You have a large amount of log data at one hand, 
 * You have amazing log management soclutions at another hand.
 * What is missing is a pipeline to connect them.

    Solution

We develop Fluent Bit to solve this problem. Fluent Bit is a program that
can talk a number of protocols and let you transfer data to log managers
very easily.

For example, it can speak Kafka protocol, so you can use fluent-bit as a pipe
to connect the server to your kafka cluster. Also it can speak elasticsearc
protocol, so you can ship your logs file into elasticsearch server 

At this point, you may wonder "Isn't that what Fluentd exactly does? what is
the difference with Fluentd"? The keyword is "efficiency". As you may know,
Fluentd is written in Ruby. It's great and very convenient language but quite
slower to run than compiled languages. Since Fluent Bit is written in c, it
can process a lot more data efficiently than Fluentd.

This table illustrates the difference between them. For LTSV, fluent bit can process 2
times more data per second, and for JSON, which fluentd has a quite
optimized parser for, but still Fluent Bit outperforms fluentd by twenty or
thirty percent.

The summary so far is

 * Fluent Bit is a lightweight log shipper.
 * It can transfer your logs to a number of services.
 * It's very efficient because of written in C.

    State of Windows Support

So this is the main part.

I'd like to start by telling that initially Fluent Bit was developed
only for Linux, indeed only for embedded Linux.

Five years ago, in the initial commit of Fluent Bit, the readme said
"Fluent Bit is a collection tool designed for Embedded Linux that
collects Kernel messages". So that was the start. It was meant to be
for Embedded Linux.

Since then, we got full Linux support, OSX support and BSD support
too. We have also expand the support to architecture other than 
intel. Notablly we have now full support for arm 64 since two years ago.
And this year we've gotten Fluent Bit to run on Windows.

So what is the current status of Windows support? We have been working
on the project since the last december, so roughly weve six month's work
right now. It have been proceeding very smoothly so far.
We've done porting most of core engine, and around third of plugins are
working. It's still quite an early stage, but we archive some
usability already.

The works we've done is, now we

 * Can compile Fluent Bit on Microsoft Visual C
 * Can launch Fluent Bit on Windows
 * Done porting 20 plugins to Windows, so you can use them.
 * Installers are also available (in two flavours: EXE and ZIP)

    How you can use it

So I want to explain that how you can start to use Fluent Bit today.
This is very easy indeed, so I'd like to show how to do that in a step
by step manner. Actually it needs just 3 step.

First, download the ZIP installer from the official site. You can open
the link on your browser and just click and save it.

Next, unarchive the ZIP installer. You can do this by right clicking
the archive and expanding it.

The ZIP archive contains a binary executable of fluent-bit. So launch
a powershell (or any shell you'd like to use), execute it with some
parameters.

In this example, I assume you have a log file stored at C:\log\json.log
and it contains JSON lines. As an output, you're running a kafka instance
at intra network, and you want to send data under the "winlog" topic.

That's it, and you'll see log data running to your kafka server in real time.

So the summary is that

 * Download the ZIP archive
 * Unzip it
 * and run the executable

This is all that you need.

    The Future

So this is status of our efforts to make Fluent Bit Windows-compatible
log shipping solution. I'd like to finish my talk with sharing some ideas
of future development.

Expand the plugins that works on Windows, in order to make it feature-complete.
Enable to register itself as Windows Service, to make the management easier,
and we are right now working on a plugin for Windows Event Log that should be
pretty much useful for Windows administartor.

And we need feedbacks from users! What is your use case? Which service do you
want to connect to? If you have idea please tell us on the issue tracker.

Thank you.
